[0017] Adding notes about experiments (#182)
microsoft/hlsl-specs: proposals/0017-conforming-literals.md

For that reason, this feature proposal targets HLSL 202x, with support for the
new literal behavior in DXC.

### Experimentation

In writing this proposal a key thesis was proposed that the impact of this
change on developers would be minimal because DXC's behavior for DXIL is
undocumented, complex, and different from other shader compilers (including
DXC's SPIR-V generator). The last point is important and relevant because a
large percentage of shader code is compiled with multiple different shader
compilers which implement different language semantics. Because of this, it is

> believed that shaders need to be resilient to subtle behavioral differences like
> the ones this change would cause.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
believed that many existing shaders are engineered to be resilient to subtle behavioral differences like
the ones this change would cause.
```

even visible with assistive image difference tools. They appear in binary
differences as pixel values being only a few bits off (in most cases 1-2 bits
per pixel).

##### Minor

Minor failures produced image differences that appeared visible with assistive
image difference tools, but not visibly distinct in final rendered images. These
appeared as pixels that deviate from the reference value by more than a few
bits. Examples of the image diff view are:

![Minor Differences Example 1](0017-assets/DiffExample1.png)
![Minor Differences Example 2](0017-assets/DiffExample2.png)

##### Subtle Visible Differences

A small number of tests had significant differences in clusters of pixels large
enough to produce minor visual artifacts. These differences are significant
enough and represent inaccuracies in rendered output that we would expect a
software developer to be concerned by and wish to address even though the
overall image still rendered mostly correctly.

##### Catastrophic Visible Differences

We have 6 test cases, all from the same software title which had severe
obviously incorrect rendering which would make the title unplayable. One

> important note about this title is that it is an Xbox & Windows exclusive title.

Reviewer: May be worth re-iterating here the significance of it being xbox/windows exclusive.

#### Conclusions Drawn

The testing here holds with the core thesis that developer impact will be

> minimal and that most shaders are resilient to the changes in precision. Further

Reviewer 2: > developer impact will be minimal

I think I would say this slightly differently. That the number of titles impacted should be minimal, but the impact to a single developer could require them to rewrite some shaders. 

What would the fix be for the catastrophic failures? Would it be to use the previous version of hlsl with the `-HV` flag? Or use a suffix on some of the constants?

Reviewer: Possibly, or to find out the cause of the issue since.  Easy to miss from the PR, but this is in the context of a proposal for a change in HLSL 202x, so DXC behavior for other language versions won't change.

Reviewer: Recall that the current DXC behavior doesn't match the documentation: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/direct3dhlsl/dx-graphics-hlsl-appendix-grammar#floating-point-numbers:

> Use the “L” suffix to specify a full 64-bit precision floating-point literal. A 32-bit float literal is the default.
>
> For example, the compiler recognizes the following literal value as a 32-bit precision floating-point literal and ignores the lower bits:
>
>
> `double x = -0.6473313946860445;`
> The compiler recognizes the following literal value as a 64-bit precision floating-point literal:
>
> `double x = -0.6473313946860445L;`

Author: @dmpots, are you okay with my updated wording here?

Reviewer 2: Yes, that looks good. It clearly separates the expected impact across all titles vs. the work an individual title might have to do if impacted by the change. Thanks!

Author: I filed #184 to track the remaining outstanding question here about any mitigations we may want to take for the catastrophic failures.

Since @dmpots is okay with the updated wording I'll resolve this thread.
